OpenStack - A Modular Collection of Cloud Services
==================================================

The various OpenStack community projects and the services they implement
are modular in nature and generally capable of being used independently.
They are intended to knit together into a net capability greater than
the sum of the individual parts.

.. figure:: ../images/openstack_architecture.png
   :alt: OpenStack High Level Architecture

   Figure 2.1. OpenStack High Level Architecture

OpenStack Compute (project name: Nova)
--------------------------------------

OpenStack enables enterprises and service providers to offer on-demand
computing resources by provisioning and managing large networks of
virtual machines. Compute resources are accessible via APIs for
developers building cloud applications and through web interfaces for
administrators and users. The compute architecture is designed to scale
horizontally on standard hardware. OpenStack Compute is architected to
avoid inherent proprietary hardware or software requirements and the
ability to integrate with existing systems and third-party technologies.
It is designed to manage and automate pools of compute resources and can
work with widely available virtualization technologies, as well as bare
metal and high-performance computing configurations.

OpenStack Block Storage (project name: Cinder)
----------------------------------------------

OpenStack Block Storage provides a “block storage as a service”
capability. It provides persistent block devices mapped to OpenStack
compute instances (which are otherwise assumed to be ephemeral). The
block storage system manages the creation, attaching and detaching of
the block devices to instances. It also optionally supports instance
booting and provides mechanisms for creating Snapshot copies and
cloning. While fully integrated with OpenStack Compute and Dashboard, it
can also be used independent of OpenStack to provide a standardized
abstraction for block storage provisioning.

OpenStack Object Storage (project name: Swift)
----------------------------------------------

OpenStack Object Storage provides a fully distributed, scale-out,
API-accessible storage platform that can be integrated directly into
applications or used for backup, archiving and data retention. Object
storage does not present a traditional file system, but rather a
distributed storage system for static data such as virtual machine
images, photo storage, email storage, backups and archives. The
OpenStack Object Storage API (aka Swift API), in a manner somewhat
similar to CDMI, proposes an open standard for cloud storage. It can
also function as an alternative endpoint for Amazon Web Services S3 and
as a CDMI server through the use of add-on components.

OpenStack Dashboard (project name: Horizon)
-------------------------------------------

The OpenStack Dashboard provides administrators and users a graphical
interface to access, provision and automate cloud-based resources. The
extensible design makes it easy to plug in and expose third-party
products and services, such as billing, monitoring, and additional
management tools. The dashboard can also be made brand specific for
service providers and other Enterprises who require customization. The
dashboard is one of several ways to interact with OpenStack resources.
Developers can automate access or build tools to manage their resources
that use the native OpenStack API or the EC2 compatibility API. The
dashboard provides users a self-service portal to provision their own
resources within the limits set by administrators.

OpenStack Identity (project name: Keystone)
-------------------------------------------

OpenStack Identity provides a central directory of users mapped to the
OpenStack services they can access. It acts as a common authentication
system across the cloud operating system and can integrate with existing
backend directory services (for example, LDAP). It supports multiple
forms of authentication including standard user name and password
credentials, token-based systems and AWS-style logins. Additionally, the
catalog provides a list of all of the services deployed in an OpenStack
cloud in that can be queried in a single registry. Users and third-party
tools can programmatically determine which resources they can access.
OpenStack Identity enables:

-  Configuration of centralized policies across users and systems

-  Creation of users and tenants and define permissions for compute,
   storage and networking resources through the use of role-based access
   control (RBAC) features

-  Integration with existing directories, allowing for a single source
   of identity authentication

-  As a user, get a list of the services that you can access and make
   API requests or log into the web dashboard to create resources owned
   by your account

OpenStack Image Service (project name: Glance)
----------------------------------------------

The OpenStack Image Service provides discovery, registration and
delivery services for disk and server images. The ability to copy or
snapshot a server image and immediately store it away is a powerful
capability of the OpenStack cloud operating system. Stored images can be
used as a template to get new servers up and running quickly and more
consistently if you are provisioning multiple servers than installing a
server operating system and individually configuring additional
services. It can also be used to store and catalog an unlimited number
of backups. The Image Service can store disk and server images in a
variety of back-ends, including through NFS and Object Storage. The
Image Service API provides a standard REST interface for querying
information about disk images and lets clients stream the images to new
servers. A multiformat image registry allowing uploads of private and
public images in a variety of formats.

OpenStack Network Service (project name: Neutron)
-------------------------------------------------

OpenStack Networking is a pluggable, scalable and API-driven system for
managing networks and IP addresses. Like other aspects of the cloud
operating system, it can be used by administrators and users to increase
the value of existing data center assets. OpenStack Networking ensures
the network is not the bottleneck or limiting factor in a cloud
deployment and provides users self-service over their own network
configurations. The pluggable backend architecture lets users take
advantage of basic commodity gear or advanced networking services from
supported vendors. Administrators can take advantage of software-defined
networking (SDN) technology like OpenFlow to allow high levels of
multi-tenancy and massive scale. OpenStack Networking has an extension
framework allowing additional network services, such as intrusion
detection systems (IDS), load balancing, firewalls and virtual private
networks (VPN) to be deployed and managed.

OpenStack Telemetry (project name: Ceilometer)
----------------------------------------------

OpenStack Telemetry provides common infrastructure to collect usage and
performance measurements within an OpenStack cloud. Its primary initial
targets are monitoring and metering, but the framework is expandable to
collect data for other needs. Ceilometer was promoted from incubation
status to an integrated component of OpenStack in the Grizzly (April
2013) release.

OpenStack Orchestration (project name: Heat)
--------------------------------------------

OpenStack Orchestration implements a service to orchestrate multiple
composite cloud applications that use the Amazon Web Services (AWS)
CloudFormation template format, through both an OpenStack-native and
CloudFormation-compatible API. It is intended, in part, to facilitate
movement of workloads from AWS to OpenStack deployments. Heat was
promoted from incubation status to an integrated component of OpenStack
in the Grizzly (April 2013) release.

OpenStack Database as a Service (project name: Trove)
-----------------------------------------------------

OpenStack Database as a Service allows users to quickly and easily
utilize the features of a relational database without the burden of
handling complex administrative tasks. Cloud users and database
administrators can provision and manage multiple database instances as
needed. Initially, the service focuses on providing resource isolation
at high performance while automating complex administrative tasks
including deployment, configuration, patching, backups, restores, and
monitoring. Trove was promoted from incubation status to an integrated
component of OpenStack in the Icehouse (April 2014) release.

OpenStack Hadoop as a Service (project name: Sahara)
----------------------------------------------------

The OpenStack Hadoop as a Service project aims to provide users with
simple means to provision a Hadoop cluster by specifying several
parameters like Hadoop version, cluster topology, nodes' hardware
details, etc. Sahara was promoted from incubation status to an
integrated component of OpenStack in the Icehouse (April 2014) release.

OpenStack File Share Service (project name: Manila)
---------------------------------------------------

OpenStack File Share Service provides coordinated access to shared or
distributed file systems. While the primary consumption of file shares
would be across OpenStack Compute instances, the service is also
intended to be accessible as an independent capability in line with the
modular design established by other OpenStack services. The design and
prototype implementation provide extensibility for multiple backends (to
support vendor or file system specific nuances / capabilities) but is
intended to be sufficiently abstract to accommodate any of a variety of
shared or distributed file system types. Manila was officially denoted
as an incubated OpenStack program during the Juno release cycle.

.. note:: The OpenStack Foundation regularly evaluates new project
   contributions for eventual inclusion as officially integrated.
   As such, the list declared previously is expected to grow over time.
   For details of all current projects refer to the
   `OpenStack Services <https://www.openstack.org/software/project-navigator/openstack-components#openstack-services>`_
   list.
